3D printing methods
===================

Additive manufacturing is the process of constructing a three-dimensional object by depositing material in discrete layers. Conversely, traditional machining methods are subtractive; material is removed to expose the desired object. This printer utilises an additive method as it produces fine plastic layers to build an object. There are many different approaches of additive manufacturing. The main four methods are outlined in the following paragraphs.

Fused deposition modelling or FDM is the method of extruding thermoplastics in layers.
 This project is considered to use an FDM method as it extrudes fine plastic layers to build an object. The printer deposits plastic material by melting it through a hot extruder. The extruder resembles a metal funnel that takes solid plastic and produces liquid plastic out of a small hole. The liquid plastic can be fused to previously deposited material. The machine must physically move the extruder around an area, while placing plastic where it is required. This process is repeated layer by layer to achieve a three-dimensional object. The technology was invented by S. Scott in 1980 cite[2].

Selective laser sintering or SLS is a technique that allows either metal, plastic, ceramic and glass powder to be fused together with a powerful laser. The laser targets cross-sections, selectively fusing a fine layer of powder to the object. Once a layer has been complete, a fresh layer of powder is dusted over the object and the process repeats. The left over material acts as a support for the object being manufactured. After the procedure has finished, the excess powder can be removed and used for the next print. The process is slow, producing porous but strong results.

Stereolithography or SLA is the method of using an ultraviolet light to cure a photopolymer. The printing platform sits in a vat of liquid resin. The light targets a cross-section of the desired object and the exposed resin will solidify. Once the layer has completed, the platform will move down allowing for another layer to be added to the model. SLA produces accurate results but is a very slow process. SLA has received a lot of attention recently as the method has been adopted by a handful of young start ups. It offers a much greater result compared to the current generation of FDM printers. However the hardware and resin is very expensive.

Laminated object manufacturing or LOM is another rapid prototyping method. It uses a laser or a knife to cut out layers from an adhesive-coated material. The layer is then heated and pressed onto the previous layers. A new sheet of material is rolled in place and the process repeats. This method can be relatively cheap as readily available material such as paper can be used.

Each process is managed by a technique called '~computer numerical control~' or CNC. This method is essentially computer controlled automation. Three-dimensional models are developed using '~Computer aided design~' or CAD. These CAD models are processed to produce CNC commands known as G-code. The G-codes are instructions that tell the  machine how to produce the CAD model.
